# music-recommendations-collaborative-filtering
Leveraged python libraries to perform Data Mining and Modelling techniques on user data from the “last.fm" app to design, analyze and implement an approach for a music recommendation system that takes user clusters’ variables for customized song recommendations. Analyzed various Similarity measures and Clustering algorithms and derived insights using Tableau to optimize the recommendation vector and achieved a recall of 73%.

Problem Statement:
With the increase in the use of e-commerce sites, it has become very easy for the users to find the items of their interest without wasting a lot of time. Websites like Amazon and Ebay examples for Recommender systems which provide recommendations to the users based on their search history and purchase history. Recommender systems provide recommendations of almost all the items ranging from books to movies to music.
When a user tries to find an item using search engines, for example, Google Search engine and Yahoo Search engine, the user needs to type the exact name of the item. The data in the internet is huge which makes it very difficult for the user to find the items of his interest. Hence, there is a need for a system which learns the likes and dislikes of the user and generates recommendations based on his interest. Many algorithms need to be used while designing a recommender system.
Research to implement an algorithm that would address all the facets of music has been tried for quite some time; but it is unreasonable to expect a system to outperform human intuition, which is difficult to quantify. Choices are influenced by human behaviour, Sometimes, and user data in its unprocessed form does not reveal important relationships between two users/items. Also, considering the field of music, where the size of music library is ever increasing, we need a viable linear algebraic approach that can address the computationally intensive approach of recommendation. Gathering data does not require much effort; however processing Big Data is problematic.
The music recommendation system is used to recommend the songs and generate the playlist that the user may likely listen using the user based collaborative filtering. The goal of this system is to compute a scoring function that aggregates the result of computing similarities between users and between items. We focus on reviewing the strategy of user-based collaborative filtering. For experimental purpose we explore different metrics to measure the similarity of users and items such as Euclidean distance, cosine metric Pearson correlation and others. Finally, we compare different evaluations metrics that represent the effectiveness of the recommender system.
